- [Instructor] Throughout the course,
we'll be taking a small application
for the Landon Hotel
through the end-to-end continuous
delivery process.
Landon Hotel is a fictional hotel,
and the application will be used
by the hotel to view bookings
that guests make for rooms.
The application is designed
with several features
used in modern Java applications
that you should be aware of when working with it.
First, it's a distributed system
built with a microservice architecture.
And to be honest,
it's a little bit overboard for this app,
but it will allow us to focus
on the mechanics of the delivery process
for this style of application.
Microservice architectures break systems down
into small services
that run in separate processes,
but they're able to communicate with each other
through API calls over a network.
This network of loosely coupled services
forms the larger system.
Since the services run independently,
we can develop and release them separately
from each other,
which is very helpful
for decoupling delivery times.
So here's kind of what our app would look like
as a monolith.
And then you can see it
in a microservice architecture.
The big thing to keep in mind here
is that each of our services
is a separate code base
that is built and released independently
from the others.
Here's another view of the architecture
that shows the communication
between the services.
There's a small web application
that serves as a front-end,
and it makes calls to three services
for information about guests, rooms,
and bookings.
Between these services,
there's a little bit of east-west traffic
because the booking API fetches
some information about rooms,
and guess from those other services.
Each microservice is a separate
Spring Boot project that uses either
Spring's web flux
or web framework to build a restful API.
Spring Boot makes it much easier to include
Spring projects and their dependencies
within an application
by using starter dependencies.
These help pull all of the libraries
that you'll need through build tools
like Maven or Gradle.
Spring Boot also automatically configures
different spring components for you
right out of the box.
But if you need to overwrite that configuration,
you can't.
By default, Spring Boot packages applications
into an executable jar,
and for web applications,
it automatically includes support
for embedded servers like Tomcat or Jetty.
Let's talk about executable jars
in a little bit more detail
because it's how we package
modern Java applications.
In the past,
Java web applications were packaged
within a WAR file that contained resources
like Servlets, JSPs,
and other configuration that was necessary
to run the app.
Once an application was packaged into a WAR file,
it could be deployed,
and run on a Servlet Container
or a full-blown Java EE Application Server.
This server was installed
as a separate piece of software on the host.
For years it was common to package, deploy,
and run Java applications this way,
but then things shifted,
and it became more common
to use an embedded web server
or Servlet Container instead of running
everything on a standalone application server.
An embedded server makes a Servlet Container
like Tomcat or a web server like Neti
another part of the application
because it's packaged as a jar
within the app.
Using the servers programmatic API
allows you to start it up
right within your source code.
These changes required a new way
of packaging, Java web applications,
the executable jar.
An executable jar
also known as a fat jar,
allows an application to package libraries
like Spring in the same package
as the applications classes.
The embedded web server
can also be included in this package,
which gives the jar everything it needs
to run the web application on its own.
Running an executable jar
is a simple one-line command,
which makes it easy to start, scale and deploy,
especially when it's packaged
in a Docker container.
By default,
Spring Boot will package applications
as an executable jar.
It does this through a plugin that you include
in either your Maven or Gradle build.
We'll cover Maven and Gradle in separate chapters
so I won't go into the details now,
but they will be an important part
of our local workflow as we develop
the application for the course project.